>>WILLIAM HENRY: We are
all on a voyage of life,
traveling the cosmos.
For now, our soul's boat is
sailing the waters of Earth.
Where do we go from here?
And how do we get there?
>>CLARE HENRY:
Next on "Arcanum,"
we will see how our soul is
indeed an enchanted boat.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>WILLIAM: I am a soul.
I am a star of gold.
To the ancient Egyptians,
this poetic line
from the pyramid
texts encapsulated
who we are as humans.
The ancient Egyptians
believed our soul
was like a wave and
a golden star-being,
a particle sailing for
eternity upon the barque
of the millions of years.
>>CLARE: This ship of eternity
was the sky boat or celestial
ship, upon which the
resurrected soul's star of gold
traveled the waters of
the universe for eternity.
Hence, the boat was a
symbol for eternal life.
>>WILLIAM: This is why the
boat, ship, or barque occupied
a special role in ancient
Egyptian symbolism
and other traditions, as well.
>>CLARE: Every ancient
Egyptian temple ceremony
concluded with a procession
of the gods to which
a small statue of the god
was placed inside a boat
and carried through the village.
>>WILLIAM: It may be
argued that the boat is
the primordial or universal
symbol of divinity
and of the soul.
>>CLARE: The boat
symbolizes the soul sailing
across the sacred river of
life to the golden the realm
of paradise.
This is why the boat is
considered a divine symbol.
>>WILLIAM: "My soul
is an enchanted boat,"
wrote Percy Shelley
in Prometheus Unbound,
"which like a sleeping
swan doth float
upon the silver waves
of they sweet singing."
>>CLARE: "And thine
doth like an angel
sit beside a helm conducting
it whilst all the winds
with melody are ringing."
>>WILLIAM: "It seems
to float ever, forever,
upon that many winding river
between mountains, woods,
abysses, a paradise
of wildernesses."
>>CLARE: "Till, like one
in slumber bound, born
to the ocean, I float down,
around into a sea profound
of ever spreading sound."
In William's feature
investigation,
he will take us to Egypt to
art featuring our soul boats.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>WILLIAM: To the
ancient Egyptians,
the Nile was the river of life.
And look at this incredible
NASA image, the god's eye view,
of the Nile at night.
We see it snaking its way
up to the Mediterranean,
fanning out in the
city of Alexandria,
right there on the
Mediterranean coast.
Absolutely incredible.
The ancient Egyptians
called their fertile land
Khem, which meant "black land."
This word Khem is the
origin of alchemy,
the art of transformation
or transmutation.
And of course, ancient Egypt was
the original home of Arcanum.
The earthly Nile was
thought of as a mirror image
of the heavenly Nile, the
Milky Way, the Milky Way
galaxy or the winding waterway,
as the ancient Egyptians
referred to it.
The Nile also symbolized
the afterlife,
and the ancient
Egyptians believed
that just souls,
or righteous souls,
came to reside in the
celestial Nile as a star being.
The entire religion and the
culture of ancient Egypt
was all predicated on the
idea that the human body could
be transformed into a
star, or a star being.
If the soul passed all the
tests that it would encounter
in what was called to the
Duat or the Netherworld,
then it would become one
with Osiris or Sokar,
lord of this Duat,
and live forever
in the night sky
as a bright star.
This is one of my
favorite images
I've ever taken in
Egypt, on my tours
there, where we see the
star walker holding,
in one hand, the
staff of Arcanum
and the star in the
other, having become
a successful soul, a resurrected
soul, a star being, or a star
walker.
Here's Spell 110 of the
Egyptian Book of the Dead,
which describes the
afterlife and details
the geography of the afterlife.
We see several tiers here of
the winding waterway, the Milky
Way, and we see
the soul journeying
upon the celestial waters.
The sky was traversed by water,
and the deceased travelled
by boat.
And this is exactly what we
see in the lower register,
are the sky boats
or the star boats.
Look at this.
We have a dual-headed
serpent ship rising out
of the winding
waterway, the Milky Way,
and we see the
ladder, or stairway,
to heaven attached to it.
This is a cartoon.
And the way I read
this cartoon is
that this dual-headed serpent
ship is the stairway to heaven.
As we go on up the
winding waterway,
we see various tiers with
afterlife activities,
including harvesting and
working with various animals,
and this sort of thing because
the ancient Egyptians believed
that life was a
continuation of earth life.
We will do similar
things in the afterlife.
So we're harvesting here.
We're working in the field of
the blessed, the field of Aaru,
and harvesting in
the afterlife, just
as we did in the Earth life.
And ultimately, we sail upon
the winding waterway, the Milky
Way, perhaps even
into other galaxies,
as well, on our enchanted boat.
Another example here
shows the same four tiers.
We see the same ship rising
out of the Earthly waters--
or the winding waterways,
the dual-headed serpent ship
with the throne attached,
or the stairway to heaven,
indicating that this is, in
fact, an ascension vehicle.
We are rising into the Milky
Way and traveling the stars
as a celestial being.
Here's another
example from a papyrus
of the Book of
the Dead, 1350 BC.
Same concept repeated
over and over again
in this Spell 110 that describes
the geography of the afterlife.
The dual-headed serpent ship
with the stairway to heaven
rises out of the waters
of the Milky Way,
and the soul travels
upon this enchanted boat.
Another example, this one
in the Metropolitan Museum
of Art in New York City.
The same ideas with
the winding waterway,
the harvesting, the dual-headed
serpent ship, so forth.
We're repeating, for emphasis,
so that we get the idea that,
of the soul as an
enchanted boat,
and ascending into
the Milky Way.
Beautiful color in
these illustrations.
And here we are
harvesting in the field
of Aaru, the field
of the blessed.
The blessed are they who have
finished their earthly mission
and polished their
soul's diamond, perhaps,
and now live forever as a star
being in the afterlife with all
the other gods who also dwell
in this other dimensional realm.
Here we see Osiris on
his ship of eternity.
Osiris is now the Djed
pillar, or column, perhaps
the mast of the
ship, who is cloaked
in his bright white garment of
light as an afterlife being.
In this example, we see a Naos
with the columns and a capital.
And always, the soul
rising upon its boat out
of the winding waterway
and sailing for eternity
as a celestial being.
But in my view, the
most profound examples
of the celestial boats
or the star boats
are to be found at Hathor's
temple of love and joy
at Denderah.
I've taken many people on tours
to this magnificent temple,
and always, we've
entered this temple
with great anticipation
of what we're
going to see when
we walk inside.
As we enter this
magnificent temple,
we're entering the realm of
Hathor, the goddess of love
and joy, who's also
symbolized by the cow.
The maternal waters of the
Milky Way, the heavens,
were comparable
to a mother's milk
in the ancient
Egyptian symbolism.
Thus comes the cow
symbolism for Hathor.
As a celestial cow,
Hathor is portrayed
with stars on her body.
Holy cow is the
expression, right?
Egypt revered mother Hathor
as the holy, heavenly cow
whose udder produced
the Milky Way and whose
body was the stars.
So when we look at an
image such as this,
we're actually seeing an
image of the Milky Way.
Here we see the great royal
wife, Nefertari, with Hathor
as a cow on the barque, or
arc of the millions of years
as it's also called, amidst the
reeds in a magnificent scene
from the temple at Abu Simbel.
So here, in the detail,
we see the lotus ship,
the dual-headed ship
or dual-gated ship,
with Hathor, the cow goddess,
amongst the field of the reeds,
or what is also called the
field of the blessed, the field
of the Milky Way galaxy itself.
I call Denderah,
Stargate Denderah.
I call all of Egypt
actually, Stargate Egypt,
because all the temples are,
in fact, portals or gateways,
entrance ways, portals
into the afterlife.
Denderah was
actually constructed
so that the light of the
helical rising of Sirius
would travel down
the main corridor
to place its red glow upon
the altar in the inner sanctum
of the temple.
When that light
reached the altar,
the beam of light from
Sirius was transformed
into the star goddess,
Isis, and, in this way,
the temple steps down the
frequency or the vibration
of our companion star, Sirius.
But it's on the
ceiling where we find
the most amazing
aspects of this temple.
Look at this incredible view
as we look up into the ceiling
here, and we see a
group of gods-- 14
of them actually --ascending
a gently ascending stairway
until they meet the god
of Arcanum, Thoth, who
is standing in
front of his mirror.
Incredible.
So here are the gods
ascending this stairway
until they reach the mirror
of Thoth who is there,
guiding them and asking
them, or inviting them,
into the afterlife realm.
And here in the detail, we see
Thoth with the eye of Thoth
in the mirror, indicating
that this is Arcanum;
this is the place we've come
to for advanced instruction.
And here is Thoth,
now, in detail,
beaming energy to, or
perhaps receiving it from,
this magnificent eye.
But what we want to see here
is Thoth on his celestial boat.
We see the pharaoh
standing before Thoth,
his rod of Arcanum in hand,
and Thoth is offering to him
the eye of perfection, the Ujat.
And what this indicates
is that this pharaoh
has accomplished the
transformation from a human
into a celestial,
or a star being,
and is now riding upon
the ship of eternity.
Thoth also rides upon
the ship of eternity,
which is called the arc
of the millions of years,
or the barque of eternity.
Powerful names, don't you think?
Enchanting names.
And of course, as I
mentioned, the eye of Thoth
is the symbol of Arcanum itself
and the perfection of the soul.
What I noticed is
that when we take
a look at the way
modern science portrays
a wormhole, a gateway
into other realms,
it precisely matches the way
the ancient Egyptians portrayed
the ship of eternity.
Now this is a, some say,
revolutionary interpretation
that I have applied to the
ancient Egyptian symbolism.
And I remember the first
time I went to Egypt,
and I pointed this
out to the guides
at the temple of Denderah.
They kind of snickered at me.
It's like, what do you
mean, the ship of eternity,
the arc of the millions
of years, is a wormhole?
And I showed them.
And now, I'm happy to report
that when I return to Denderah,
I often will hear the guides,
even from other tour groups,
saying look at the ceiling,
look at the gods sailing
upon their wormhole boats.
And now, it's part
of the vernacular.
And I believe that this
is exactly what we're
looking at is these
celestial beings traveling
aboard their ships of eternity,
which today we call a wormhole.
How else does a
celestial, or star being,
travel the universe, if not
through wormholes or star
gates?
And in fact, what
we're looking at here
is the resurrected Osiris as
Orion with his staff of Arcanum
in hand, traveling into
the celestial fields
of the Milky Way.
In fact, he's traveling
towards Orion.
And I believe he
is getting there
via his star boat, which
is, in fact, a wormhole.
An incredible revelation
and one of the things
that I'm most proud
of in my research
and writing about the ancient
Egyptian mystery religion.
So here we are, coming
back to Spell 110,
and what is that
dual-headed serpent ship
with the stairway to heaven
attached but also a wormhole.
The symbolism fits,
both in its appearance
as well as its meaning.
They both do the same thing.
The celestial ship of eternity
is, I believe, a wormhole.
And since 2004,
I've been cataloging
images of Osiris and other gods
star walking, as I term it,
or surfing on their
ships of eternity as
regenerated or born-again
beings of light.
They're star beings.
And I've been
comparing these images
to modern depictions of the
star boats scientists call
wormholes, or star gates, that
theoretically enable travel
through the galaxy, and
even to parallel dimensions,
as if there's
nothing in between.
And as seen here,
the similarities
are eye-poppingly perfect.
And so, over and again,
especially here at Denderah,
we see the gods, the celestial
beings, on their thrones,
traveling aboard their star
boats, aboard their wormholes.
We see the goddesses
upholding the image of heaven.
The star symbol is
the symbol for heaven
in the ancient Egyptian
symbol tradition.
And so what we see are
these star boats sailing
through the stars as celestial
beings are known to do,
traveling perhaps
interdimensionally
or between star systems, coming
and going from Sirius or Orion,
the Pleiades, or any of
the other star systems
that are so frequently mentioned
in the ancient Egyptian
tradition, as well as other
Near Eastern traditions.
So over and again, we
see this symbolism.
And now we know what it means.
It means that these are
celestial beings traveling
via wormholes.
So let's talk about
this staff of Arcanum,
as I referred to it.
The ancient Egyptians
called it the Uas scepter,
and they describe it
producing a flow of sap.
This life or sap appears to
be a subtle cosmic energy
that some believe is
actually drawn from Sirius.
Here we see Ptah and
Thoth, once again,
holding their Arcanum staffs.
Is it possible that this
is a universal ascension
staff, as I refer to it?
The alchemist
Schwaller de Lubicz
described this holy
stick as a living branch,
conducting the un-manifest
vivifying sap, as he called it,
or nourishing sap,
that he believed
was drawn from the
star of Sirius.
This sap-- or is it an oil
because, after all, isn't
that the function of
the sap in a tree.
It is an oil.
It's a life blood of the tree.
Schwaller says it's
resonate with the Christian
Word, the life force energy
upon which the world is built.
And one could surmise that this
branch, or stick, holy stick,
is made from the wood of life.
Now we have the four elements--
earth, air, fire, and water.
But in the East, they have the
fifth element, which is wood,
or the quintessence,
the life force energy.
So it could well be that
this staff is actually
a symbol for their mastery of
the fifth essence, the life
force energy, the wood
or Word upon which
all the universe is built.
This is an important pun
because, after all, let's
think about in the
context of Christianity.
Jesus was a carpenter,
meaning he was a wood worker.
Does that mean Jesus was
a builder of furniture?
Well, could be.
But esoterically,
as a wood worker,
Jesus would be a worker of the
etherical, of the quintessence,
of the etheric energy,
the wood or Word
upon which the
universe is built.
That's my take on it, anyway.
So continuing on, we
see numerous examples
of these gods who are sailing
upon their wormhole shaped
boats, sitting on
their feathered thrown,
indicating flight or ascension.
Got their key of life in hand.
Got the Uas sceptor, the
ascension staff, in their hand.
They're good to
go, ready to sail
upon the waters
of the Milky Way.
Depictions of these
star boats are
found in numerous temples
and tombs of ancient Egypt.
On my tours, we connect with the
teachings associated with them.
And these teachings are about
becoming regenerated star
beings or celestial beings.
One of my favorite
ports of call is Esna.
And when we go into
the temple at Esna,
we see, once again,
like at Denderah,
the gods upon their
wormhole-shaped boats.
On the left, we see Ptah,
standing in his shrine
aboard his star boat, mounted
to this wormhole-shaped boat
of eternity.
And beside him is
Osiris who sails
upon his ship of eternity.
And in the detail, we see Osiris
laid out on his funeral bier,
on his ship of eternity,
sailing upon the stars.
Ptah, or Osiris, is shown
upright here on his boat.
Now he holds the
combined Ankh, which
means life, the
Djed, or stability,
and Uas, the key to the
Milky Way, in is hand.
And this means now he is a
fully-functioning celestial
being, able to wield the
energy of the universe
and travel as a star being.
It suggests to me
that his consciousness
is linked with the
universe, and perhaps he
travels at the speed of thought
as he surfs upon his star boat.
This is his companion Sekhmet
who also surfs on her star boat
at Esna, also holding her staff.
Especially captivating
are the two awakened eyes
that we see here
and the combination
of the wormhole symbols.
I take this is as a sign
that we're waking up
to the meaning of the
wormhole-shaped boats
of the gods.
Science says that we're a Type
0 civilization on a Kardashev
scale.
We cannibalize the biological
resources of our planet.
We're trying to become a Type
1 civilization that will then
harness the power of our
local star-- or, excuse me,
harness the power of our planet
as our primary energy resource.
We'll stop using
biological fuel and use
the power, or the energy,
of the planet itself.
When we become a
Type 2 civilization,
we'll harness the power of
our local star, our sun,
and that will become our
primary energy source.
Type 3 beings actually harness
the power of the black hole
at the center of a
galaxy, and they're
a space-faring civilization
in that they're
able to colonize not
only their local star
system, but, in
fact, the galaxy.
I believe that these
beings that we're
seeing on the star boats in
Egypt, these celestial beings,
are Type 3 beings on
the Kardashev scale.
They're non-physical beings
that inhabit the entire galaxy
and have the ability to travel
the stars through star boats
or wormholes.
The Book of the
Amduat, or what is
called the Book of What
is in the Netherworld,
records Ra's night sea
journey on his arc of eternity
as he crosses the
underworld in his boat.
Again, it's shaped
like a wormhole.
He has the key of
life on his knee,
and he prepares to sail
into this gate of stars
that I prefer to
call a stargate.
It appears to me
that this cartoon
is describing Ra's journey
into another dimension,
or perhaps into
other star systems.
After successfully crossing the
underworld on his night barque,
Ra then emerges in
his morning barque.
Now, what some
people would say is
that this is simply an
image of the sun that
is crossing into
the star of field.
Well, I'd be
comfortable with that
because, to the
ancient Egyptians,
our sun was, in fact,
a sun tunnel, a star
tunnel, or a stargate.
As Christianity teaches, the way
to heaven is through the sun.
They spell it S-O-N.
But in ancient Egypt,
we would spell it, in English,
S-U-N. And the pun fits.
The way to heaven, the way to
the star field of the Milky
Way, is through the sun.
And actually, modern
Russian scientists
are now hypothesizing
that our sun produces
an oil, a sap, a fluid,
a liquid at its center
that could potentially open
a wormhole into other star
systems.
So it seems we're waking up.
Modern science is
beginning to think
like the ancient Egyptians.
What an incredible revelation.
And what a time we're
in for as this unfolds,
as we awaken to think
about the possibility
that we might be this close
to learning to dematerialize
our bodies into light and
board the wormholes of eternity
and sail for eternity
as star beings.
Just imagine that.
Believe it, and we will live it.
The shape, again, of Ra's ship
matches a modern wormhole.
I don't think it's
a coincidence.
I think these gods
actually sailed the stars,
as eternal light
beings, on wormholes.
An incredible correspondence.
And again, something I'm
very proud of to have
made, been the originator
of this correspondence.
Let's take a look at this here.
This is a NASA
image, or depiction,
of a hypothetical wormhole
induction-propelled spacecraft.
NASA envisions,
within 100 years,
according to their
100-year starship program,
being able to create a warp
craft similar to that what
we see on Star Trek and being
able to open through warp
craft, or warp drives,
wormholes that lead
to other star systems.
Presently, to travel to our
nearest star, Alpha Centauri,
it would take 75,000 years in
a conventional rocket ship.
We can make that journey in
two weeks in a warp craft.
And NASA has set its sights
on accomplishing this
within 100 years.
What I would
suggest is that they
want to go back and start
getting some inspiration
from the ancient Egyptians and
other cultures that describe
traveling the stars
in star boats.
Because what they're
going to find
is that this body
isn't going anywhere.
There seems to be a boundary
that flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of heaven.
There's a boundary that keeps
us locked on the earth plane.
The only way that we
can travel the stars
is to transform ourselves
into celestial beings.
And I would suggest that
the NASA scientists want
to start thinking
in those terms.
And that is the
only way we're going
to be able to travel
between star systems
is as celestial beings, star
beings, or light beings.
The wormhole, to me, I think
is the primordial shape,
the ultimate symbol.
I mean, which came first,
the earthly conception
of a boat being shaped
like a wormhole,
or did the Egyptian artists
pull it out of the stars?
I believe that this is
the primordial symbol
because it symbolizes all
of our journey as a soul.
We all experience a birth.
We live a life.
And then we experience a death.
It's as if we enter a
portal, a womb, a wormhole.
We emerge into the
three-dimensional world,
the manifest world,
through a portal,
our mother's womb
and the birth canal.
Then we experience life.
And then, at death,
we experience,
according to near-death
experiencers, the opening
of another portal, or
gateway, into another realm.
So we all began life
with an inhuman past.
We came from somewhere else.
We're temporarily
inhabiting the earth plane.
We experience a life, which
is, we think of as the present.
And life is a gift,
after all, isn't it?
Then at some point
in the future,
we will experience
a resurrection.
That's the promise of
numerous spiritual traditions.
And that's why I call earth
Stargate U, because we're here
to learn to transform ourselves
into celestial or star beings,
to perfect ourselves, to
become more whole, more
holy and complete,
so that then we
can open the gate
of resurrection
just like the ancient Egyptians.
So let's look at this
example in more detail
here because this is the sun.
This is Ra.
He's on his ship.
But look at the ladder
in the front here.
This indicates that
this ship is, in fact,
the ladder, or
stairway, to heaven.
We find this motif,
this symbolism,
expressed even in
Egyptian jewelry.
It's not just on temple
walls or on papyruses.
It's in jewelry, such as
this example here where
this lucky pharaoh is
aboard his ship of eternity,
protected by Isis and Nephthys.
The symbol of heaven is up
above, filled with stars.
He's sailing on
the cosmic waters.
This is the hope and promise
of the Egyptian religion.
And actually, this
piece of jewelry
would've been worn on the
heart of this pharaoh,
perhaps as a
reminder of our quest
on Earth: to learn to master
this stargate metaphysics,
as I call it, and board
the ship of eternity.
Interestingly, this 4,500 year
old solar boat of the pharaoh
was discovered in 1954,
buried in a sealed pit
at the foot of the
great pyramids of Giza.
You can visit it today.
It's extraordinary, and it's
in incredible, pristine shape,
even after all this time.
And what we notice is that
this ship is precisely
shaped like a wormhole.
It's called the Khufu ship,
after it's presumed owner,
the second pharaoh
of the fourth dynasty
who is presumed to have
built the Great Pyramid.
It's part of his kit of tools
intended for the afterlife.
And again, could it be
that the ancient Egyptians
knew about wormholes?
I believe that they did.
And this synchronicity
presents a question.
Again, which came
first; the shape
of the celestial
ship, the wormhole,
or the man-made earthly ship?
I think that the ancient
Egyptians created earthly ships
in the shape of wormholes
because they downloaded
that primordial ship--
or shape, rather.
The Vikings also created
wormhole-shaped ships.
They burned soul boats at sea.
Norway is renowned for
its Viking heritage,
as seen here, located in the
Kulturhistorisk Museum in Oslo.
The shape of this ship, which
is intended to be burnt at sea,
is identical to that of the
soul, or solar, boat-- another
pun-- we find in ancient Egypt.
The boat of the
millions of years
is here seen on the tomb of Seti
I in the Valley of the Kings
in Egypt.
And a serpent now
rides upon the ship.
Now that's a very
interesting bit of symbolism
because the serpent
symbolizes immortality,
the shedding of the skin.
It also symbolizes a vibration.
Think of a serpent or sine wave.
So once again, we are
triggered to think
about the concept of
sound or vibration,
that perhaps the
ancient Egyptians
were masters of
sound or vibration.
And here we see the god Khnum
with his staff of Arcanum
with the serpent being
lifted beside it.
This is exactly
what Moses did when
he lifted the serpent of
healing in the wilderness.
Is he lifting a vibration
from within himself
that produces a healing
sound or vibration
as happened in the story?
Again, from the tomb of Seti,
we see this exact symbolism,
once again, with the serpent
or vibration, the sine wave,
encapsulating Khnum on
the wormhole-shaped boat.
It's a very popular
motif in Egypt.
But switching over
to ancient Samaria
and Babylon, what do we
find but the sun god,
Shamash, on his throne,
riding upon his serpent ship.
And look at the demarcations
on this serpent ship,
which, by the way, has
the torso of a human
and the head of a human.
We see these notches on
the serpent ship here.
And to me, that
indicates spiraling.
Again, connecting us to
the idea of vibration
but also the opening of
a portal, or a vortex,
as the sun god spirals
his way through the cosmos
on his serpent ship.
He's actually riding a
vibrational wave, in my view.
The correspondence
between ancient Samaria
with Shamash and Ra aboard
his ship, it's identical.
We're talking about
a transposition
of this symbolism-- or a
transmission of this symbolism
from one culture to the next
with identical meanings.
Enki, the great creator god
of the Anunnaki tradition
in ancient Samaria,
travels in the boat
to the afterworld, or the
afterlife, or the underworld.
Here's the king with his
winged sun disk above.
Now, that's another
form of craft.
And it's also, of
course, a ship.
And the pun on craft and
ship is a very important one
because the alchemists
were all about the craft.
They called their art the craft.
And what they were
hoping to do was
to craft a perfect, or light,
body that then would become
the ship upon which
they sail for eternity.
So here we see the Anunnaki
gods, or priests, rather,
on either side of the radiant
tree of life with the sun god
Shamash above in his winged,
or radiant, craft, even
beaming energy to this
radiant tree of life.
Same thing is
going on here where
we see the priest
kings, now called
the Apkallu, who wear
their fish cloaks,
standing on the side of
the radiant tree of life
with the gods above in
their craft, presumed
to be sailing for eternity
as celestial beings.
Here again, the god in the
winged sun disk, or craft,
is hovering above the
radiant tree of life
while the Apkallu priests
stand on either side.
This is a purification ceremony
that we're witnessing here.
The officiating fish priest is
the maasmasu, or the purifier.
And they are, in fact,
being purified, I propose,
in preparation for sailing
upon the ship of eternity,
or the arc of the
millions of years,
as the ancient Egyptians
referred to it.
Powerful, powerful
correspondance
here with alchemy.
Once again, the
craft, Arcanum-- it's
all about purification
and manifestation
of the light body.
Here is Enki, who is the
Samarian god of smithcraft
and alchemy, the god of the
craft, the god of wisdom
who took humanity on a
guided tour of the afterlife
aboard his boat.
Now some will argue
that this winged craft
is like a UFO, a
metallic flying saucer.
But actually, we're talking
about something far more
profound than that.
This is an organic
light vehicle that
takes the soul
into the afterlife.
It is the boat of eternity, the
ship of the millions of years,
the arc of the
millions of years,
as the ancient Egyptians
referred to it.
This journey is always about
crossing over, or between,
unknown realms.
And while many associate
the soul boat with death,
it is equally a symbol of birth.
Very powerful difference.
And it's also a
symbol of incarnation
because they believe that our
soul is an enchanted boat that
continually incarnates,
whether on the earth plane
or in other star systems or in
planets within the Milky Way
or even extending it
out into the hundreds
of billions of galaxies that
NASA and other scientists
now tell us inhabits
the known universe.
Layer on top of that the
concept that we, in fact,
live in a multiverse, and you
see how now our enchanted boat
actually sails
for eternity into,
not only other star
systems and other galaxies,
but other universes.
It just goes on and on and on.
Welcome to the journey.
Painters and visionaries
with opened mind's eyes
have glimpsed the
boat of eternity
ever since the
ancient Egyptians.
A favorite modern
artist is Walter Crane
who shows this magnificent
image that's titled "My Soul
Is An Enchanted Boat."
It may be observed that the
most successful of these artists
are they who also see the
ferryman stealing, or, excuse
me, steering the soul, or
boat, along the River Styx
to the land of the living.
So here's Walter
Crane's "My Soul
Is An Enchanted Boat"
that's being guided along,
sailing upon the ship of
eternity by this winged being,
the fairy being who
is guiding the ship.
This is our higher self,
our messenger self,
our guardian angel that
is steering the ship.
It's our mystic guide on
our path through the stars
and, indeed, the galaxies
and even the universes.
Ever present, but too often
unseen, as Clare will show,
the ferryman is always there.
The messenger is always there
to help us to guide our soul
ship along our earthly
journey so that we can, once
again, return to the
stars as celestial beings.
Christianity claims
that the boat, or ship,
is a symbol for the
Immaculate Conception--
hmm --and the
Virgin Mary's womb,
the vessel that brought
Jesus to the human world,
to the earth plane.
And, again, in the
gnostic view, Jesus
is a celestial,
or star, being who
manifested on the earth plane.
And he did so by coming
through the womb,
or gate, of the Virgin Mary.
The archetypal almond
shape of the hull of a ship
is compared to the
vulva or birth canal.
So maybe this is the origin
of the ship symbolism.
It doesn't come from the cosmos.
Maybe it comes
from the human body
where the ship is now
the vulva or birth canal.
So here's the hull of a ship.
And just for
illustration purposes,
I brought a second one in here
and flipped it upside down.
And there's our almond
shape, the shape
of the ship of eternity,
the gateway, the man-dorla,
the almond-shaped gate of
eternity, so often used,
especially in
Christian symbolism.
For example, we look need no
further than this example here
of Mary beaming us
energy in her ship,
her almond-shaped gateway.
The Egyptians called
this almond-shape Ru,
which they interpreted as the
gate to the field of eternity.
And so here we can imagine
Mary is in the gate of life.
She's in a boat symbol, or the
portal in between realities.
And here, we notice
the rainbow motif.
She's sitting on
the arcing rainbow,
and she's also encapsulated
within, or riding within,
the ship of eternity, the
almond-shaped gateway,
also portrayed as a rainbow.
We see this in
numerous instances
in Christian art
portraying the incarnation
of the celestial being, Jesus.
As for example here,
Jacopa di Cione
in the "Madonna and
the Child in Glory".
We see Mary as the virgin
with her star cloak on.
We see Jesus on her lap.
And they're both inside
this ship, or gateway,
this radiant ship, or portal,
through which they manifest.
Here's the "Altar from La
Mare de Deu in El Coll,"
from the 12th century.
Mary-- and Jesus
on her lap-- she's
in the almond-shaped
gateway filled with stars.
And now, as we go into the
detail here of this incredibly
beautiful painting, we see
Mary's star cloak is, in fact,
covered with the Chintamani
symbol, the symbol
of the wish-fulfilling
jewel, the jewel of Arcanum.
And this further
solidifies the idea
that she is a master of the
craft, the master of Arcanum,
of manifesting the light
body and the ability
to toggle, or phase, back and
forth between the material
and the immaterial realm.
She is Isis.
And, in fact, the
ancient Egyptians
referred to the arc of
the millions of years,
or the ship of eternity,
as the light ship of Isis.
Well, here, it's Mary who
now takes the place of Isis.
And Jesus is taking the
place of Horace, the sun god.
And she is enfolded within
this radiant gateway of light.
She's in the portal,
the ship of eternity.
Here's the "Altarpiece of the
Virgin of Guadalupe," where
Mary, again, is
wearing the star cloak.
She also wears her crown.
And she is in the almond-shaped
gateway, the portal or symbol
of the ship of eternity.
In the detail here, we see
her in this prayer pose,
meditating, radiating light.
And once again, we're encouraged
to connect with this imagery,
to feel this radiant light,
this holy light emanating
from Mary's body.
One of my favorites is
"The Virgin and Child".
Wow.
It's just stunning
in its beauty.
You can spend hours getting lost
in this painting, and I have.
And what we see, once again,
is Mary with the baby Jesus.
She's in the egg-shaped
gateway, the portal, the ship,
the gateway between
the dimensions.
This small painting
of the Madonna
depicts a fragile female figure
holding her newborn together.
The artist indicates
her floating
in concentric rainbow rings that
are also populated by angels.
This, to me, is saying
that the artist is showing
this as a portal or gateway
into other dimensions that
are inhabited by other
dimensional beings,
perhaps celestial beings
like the ancient Egyptians
were showing.
She's standing on the
vanquished dragon, which
indicates she has
conquered fear.
She has conquered
the dragon that
guards the pearl, that guards
the abilities of the soul.
The infant Jesus is playing
two bells in concert
with the angel on the left--
the left side of the painting,
indicating sound, music,
vibration, once again,
is the key to opening
the portal, or gateway,
into other dimensions.
I've said so many
times that sometimes we
spend our lives tuned in to just
one narrow band of frequency.
And on either side of that
narrow band are wide open
worlds where we can communicate
with other dimensional beings,
angelic beings that
are here to assist us.
It appears to me that Jesus is
in the role of the conductor
here because, clearly, the baby
Jesus and the angel over here
are definitely looking
at one another.
They're jammin', right?
And Jesus is the conductor
of this musical ceremony
that we're
participating in here.
They're making music together.
They're crossing over
dimensions by swapping tunes.
They're in the shed,
right, chopping wood.
That's what they say in
Nashville where I live.
You play guitar, you've
got an ax, right?
And when you're
going to go practice,
you're going to go chop wood.
That doesn't mean that you're
going to go into a wood shed
and literally chop
wood; it means
you're going to play
tones and vibrations.
You're going to open
gateways to other realms.
You're going to play tunes, man.
And that's what's
happening here is
that Jesus is the
cosmic musician,
playing the music
of the spheres,
and the angels are
there to jam with him.
And as a consequence, they're
opening the portal, or gateway,
the ship of eternity, and
are opening each other
to other dimensional
experiences.
It shows, again,
the conductor Jesus
in the role of the
universal prime mover.
Remember when we looked at the
Philosophers' Stone episode
where Jesus has the
wand in his hand.
What if that is,
in fact, is a baton
and he's like a
symphony conductor,
just playing away the universal
tunes, the cosmic tones that
animate the entire universe.
And he's able to call a
tune and make anything
manifest as a
consequence, including
opening the gateway
to other dimensions
as is happening here.
We have a seraphim over
on the right, the highest
order of angels, indicating
that this portal, or gateway,
extends out even
into the farthest
reaches of the universe where
the beings of light and love
dwell.
You can see why this is one
of my favorite paintings.
There is so much going on here.
We could practically spend an
entire episode of "Arcanum"
just on this one painting.
Absolutely extraordinary.
Christianity adopted the
boat as a secret symbol.
The ship of souls
was, of course,
known as the Bark of St. Peter.
And they took this
symbolism and flipped it
in an extraordinary way.
The use of the boat metaphor
was made physical in the nave,
Latin for ship, of European
Christian churches which
actually took the shape
of an upturned boat hull,
referring to the
spiritual journey.
How many people
realize that when
they enter a Christian
church, they're
actually entering
the hull of a ship?
And it's meant to be a portal,
or a vehicle, for our journey
into other realms, into
other higher dimensions.
The boat represents the church.
As St. Augustine explained in
his exegesis of Noah's ark,
the image of the church as a
boat in which the faithful find
refuge from the
sea of the world is
extremely commonplace
in medieval iconography.
The architecture of the
church building itself
is meant to recall
an image of a boat.
The nave, again from the
Latin novice meaning ship,
is often constructed so that
the roof resembles an upside
down ship's keel.
In my view, the most
powerful example of this
is the Arena Chapel in Italy
painted by the master Giotto
where we see the upturned
boat in all the signs
and symbols of the
Christian teaching,
especially the last judgment
present in this upturned boat.
If we can absorb and understand
all this mystical symbolism,
I'm convinced, we
will be able to enter
into the cosmic realm inhabited
by these celestial, transformed
beings.
In fact, on the hull of this
ship, this upturned boat,
we see stars indicating that
this is a portal, or gateway,
into the star field,
the field of the blessed
as the Egyptians called it.
And who do we see in this star
field greeting us but Jesus,
holding the book of Arcanum
on his lap, enfolded
within the rainbow ring,
and encouraging us,
in fact inviting us, to make
the journey, to board the ship,
to set our sails for eternity.
And that is the
secret of Arcanum.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And now, Clare is
going to share with us
the magic of Thomas Cole who
did an amazing job visualizing
our soul as an enchanted boat.
>>CLARE: On this segment
of "Beyond on the Veil,"
I want to share one of my
favorite painters, Thomas Cole,
in his fantastic
selection of four
paintings about "my soul
is an enchanted boat".
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Thomas Cole was viewed as one of
the most accomplished landscape
painters in the world.
Originally from
England, he eventually
moved to Philadelphia in 1824.
Thomas Cole spent many years
abroad in England, Italy,
and Europe in an effort to study
the style of the old masters,
and he was the founder
of the Hudson River
School in New York state.
Cole, although primarily
a painter of landscapes,
also painted mystical
and visionary works,
including "Expulsion
from the Garden of Eden"
showing the gate, or portal,
to Eden as a blinding light.
This is the gate we seek
to reopen with Arcanum.
Cole's "The Pilgrim of the
Cross at the End of his Journey"
shows the portal, or
crossing place, in the sky.
Recognizing we are
all pilgrims, Cole
invites us to take the next
step and to scale the ladder
to heaven.
"The Titan's Goblet"--
one of my favorites, too--
is a simply stunning example
of Cole's ability to portray
heaven and earth in
the world of matter.
"The Voyage of Life"
series is a more
personal Christian
allegory that interprets,
visually, the journey of man
through four stages of life:
childhood, youth,
manhood, and old age.
The series of four paintings
was completed in 1840
to great success
after being exhibited
in the National
Gallery in New York.
Whilst in Rome, Cole painted the
second set of the same series.
These four
extraordinary paintings
take the viewer along a
delicious path from birth
to death and beyond,
incorporating the elements
of life symbolized
by the flowing river.
His ethereal depiction of
mountains, landscape, sky,
the boat, the angel, the
flowers, and time masterly
disguised in the hourglass.
The first painting
out of the four
that Thomas Cole painted
in "The Voyage of Life"
series is called "Childhood".
Like many of the
great masters who
created paintings of
an ethereal nature,
Cole was highly religious
and admitted to the fact
that he had visions of angels,
and such like, in written
letters published by
Barnes and Noble in 1840.
Thomas Cole must've
known that the angel who
guides the baby's soul in
all these four paintings,
is, in fact, our higher self.
Winged and radiant, the
angel gently guides the boat.
At the foot of the
mountain, the cave
represents mother's
womb, the birthplace,
emblematic of our earthly
origin and the mysterious past.
A stream is seen issuing
from the deep cavern
in the side of the craggy
and precipitous mountain.
The mountain peaks reach
high above the clouds,
suggesting the baby's soul
is still partially linked
to the heavenly realms and,
of course, invisible to man.
If one looks
carefully, faces can
be seen within the
mountain, suggesting
there are powerful
unknown forces hidden
in the very fabric of the earth.
Could they be connected
to us, in some way?
Is it possible that
mountains guard and assist us
in our voyage of life?
Cole's use of color is ethereal.
The warmth of the
rising sun gently
reflects on the
distant mountains,
giving a feeling of comfort
for the newborn child.
From out of the dark
cave glides a boat,
representing the arrival of our
soul in the world of matter,
sailing calmly on
the cosmic waters
of our earthly existence.
The passage is narrow,
which symbolizes
the sheltered experience
of the newborn traveler.
The baby stretches his
arms in sheer abandonment,
trust, innocence, and joy,
void of earthly trappings.
On the riverbank, a paradise
of flowers in spring
bloom, with the sun
rising in the east,
symbolizing the golden
early morning of the day.
The boat seems to
emerge from Eden--
at least this flowery scene
is reminiscent of Cole's
"Flowers of Eden."
The boat, whose
golden prow and sides
are sculptured into
figures of the hours
linking mortality with
time and the soul's descent
into matter downstream, is
steered by an angelic form
and laden with beautiful
new buds and flowers.
This innocent baby's soul is
deeply loved and protected
by all that surrounds
him, yet oblivious of what
is ahead of him on the
start of his journey.
The guardian angel
acts like a rudder
and stands with
outstretched arms
behind the baby's
soul in the boat,
guiding him safely
along the way.
The Egyptian lotus in the
foreground of the painting
represents eternity and suggests
that the voyager of the soul
never ends, whether on
earth or other dimensions.
The second painting of the
series is called "Youth".
Here we see the baby has
grown into a youth yearning
to be older than his tender
years and feeding his ego
and dreaming of adventure.
Alone in the boat, his destiny
in his own hands, with his hand
firmly on the rudder,
embracing free will.
He enthusiastically acknowledges
the heavenly realms,
with his eyes focused on the
castles in the sky which are,
of course, his dreams.
Along the river, he journeys
amidst luscious plantation--
lofty trees, all in full bloom,
and a rosy light overhead,
depicting a summer
scene at midday.
The angel stands on the flowery
banks and waves the youth
safe passage, willing him to
learn the lessons he came back
to Earth to learn
in this lifetime,
but always watching
and protecting him.
The youth is healthy, powerful,
and hungry for adventure,
oblivious of the
beauty around him.
The dimly lit path
intimates that youth,
in its impetuous
career, is forgetful
that it has embarked
on the stream of life.
The river of wider
scope winds endlessly,
depicting the path of life
glimpsed between the trees
as it ebbs and flows
into the distance.
The river current sweeps
along with restless force
and increases in
swiftness as it descends
toward the great
ocean of eternity.
In the far distance, the
river takes a sharp turn
in the far right
of the painting.
The river starts to speed up.
There are craggy rocks and
cliffs and menacing waters
from rapid currents,
suggesting the youth has
some lasting lessons
to learn in the future.
High up in the sky is
the cloud-built castle,
with its many mansions,
depicting the youth's dreams
and aspirations
guarded by angels.
The city of dreams,
separating heaven and earth,
clearly veiled in the painting
to symbolize forgetfulness.
The hours carved on
the front of the boat
are shining and new, giving
safe passage to the youth
and instilling powers to teach
the youngster the tools he
needs to survive in
the world of matter
if he so chooses to do so.
The hourglass is no longer full,
suggesting his time on earth
has already been decided.
Cole leads us forward
to the third painting
of the series, called "Manhood".
The youth has become
a man and now faces
the hard trials of life.
Nature's fury, evil
demons, and self-doubt
threaten the voyager who
struggles with his sorrowing
soul between doubt and faith.
And only divine
intervention, Cole suggested,
can save the voyager
from a tragic fate.
The storms of Maya begin
to strip his ego, which,
in turn, helps to remind
him of his divine roots.
Full of fear, he is
unaware of the light
in the distance, the
divine support that
has been with him since he was
born into the world of matter.
The warm sunlight of youth
has been clouded over
with dark, menacing, stormy
skies and torrential rains.
The fresh green grass
is gone, replaced
by hard and unforgiving rock.
And the trees have become
wind-beaten, broken, gnarled,
and leafless.
The swollen river
rushes furiously
toward the ocean, which is
dimly seen in the distance
through the mist, down
a dark ravine, whirling
and foaming in its wild wake.
The river represents the
flow of life, with its twists
and turns symbolizing choices.
Unknown to the voyager, the
angel is but a glance away,
amidst the clouds,
watching and waiting
for her ward to
complete his test.
The hourglass
continues to lose sand,
and the voyager is
running out of time.
The boat, empty of the
flowers that once adorned it,
is damaged, and
the tiller is gone.
The voyager no longer
has control of his boat.
The extreme narrowness of the
passage between the two rock
faces heightens the
tension of the voyager
as evil spirits stare down
for the dark clouds above.
The man grows ever more fearful
as the river turns violent
and threatens to upturn
the voyager's boat,
implying the precarious
nature of adulthood.
Cole draws attention
to the battered trees
and their encounter with
the passage of time,
riven by tempest and cleverly
representing the battle scars
that the voyager has
encountered in life,
often described as
the storms of Maya,
the dark nights of the soul.
Cole has been creative in his
depiction of the demons that
gather amidst the clouds
above the voyager,
suggesting that the
evil spirits represent
suicide, intemperance,
and murder, all of which
are temptations that beset man
and his troubles and suffering.
The demon holds a
cup for the voyager
to drink from, an
enticing substance created
from destructive emotion, fear.
If the voyager
succumbs to fear, he
is lost to the demons, waiting
in the shadows to win him over.
Once again, we see
powerful ancient faces
in the rocks, one of which
is facing toward the sun,
suggesting that the voyager's
journey is being observed
by far greater and powerful
forces known to man.
Do the rocks know
more than we do?
Is it possible that the
earth is far more in tune
with other realms than man is?
Cole masterfully
joins heaven and earth
in the elements at play here.
In the far distant background,
a glimpse of the horizon
can be seen.
The serene, clear
sunset-colored sky
reflects orange and
yellowish browns,
depicting autumn in
the late afternoon,
at twilight, and representing
hope and salvation.
In the trials and
tribulations of life,
the angel talks to the soul.
And eventually, the soul
is forced to listen.
When the dark night of
the soul is realized,
surrender takes place and
the soul begins to heal,
continuing his
journey in preparation
of a new test in
the world of matter.
The major storm is over
in the voyager's life.
Stillness has been found,
and the soul reaches old age
and prepares to go home.
Let's take a look at
Cole's fourth painting,
called "Old Age".
A dark winter's
evening is the setting,
and the old man
acknowledges that he
is coming to the end of
his life journey on Earth.
He is slow and weary
and his body is weak.
Cole portrays a finality
of passage for the voyager
by using dimming
light and brooding
clouds over a vast
midnight ocean.
A few barren rocks are seen
through the last shores
of the world.
These form the mouth of
the river and the boat
shattered by storms.
Once again, we see the
hidden ancient faces
observing the old man, almost
with respect and sadness
as they watch the
wake of his passing.
The stream of life
has now reached
the ocean, to which
all life is tending.
The world to old age is
destitute of interest.
There is no longer any
green thing upon it.
The broken and drooping figures
of the boat, the broken tiller,
and lost hourglass tells
us that time is nearly
expired for the elderly voyager.
The chains of corporal
existence are falling away.
And already, the mind has
glimpses of immortal life.
The old man in the
boat looks upward
to an opening in the
clouds, from whence
a glorious light bursts
forth, and angels
are seen descending
the cloudy steps
as if to welcome him to
the haven of immortal life.
The old man, with his long white
hair symbolizing earthly wisdom
gained along his journey, turns
to his faith for assistance.
And for the first time
as he raises his head,
he sees his magnificent
guardian angel very close
and gently guiding him home.
Thomas Cole has achieved
such a beautiful story
in these wondrous paintings,
and one that must surely
give hope and peace to all
those who live on this Earth
and experience life, that they
are not alone in their journey.
An angel emerges from
a portal, a stargate,
or a wormhole composed
of concentric rings.
The journey home begins.
His right hand
rests on his heart,
and he is at peace
with the world,
surrendering the struggle,
and ready to exit the Earth.
His magnificent time
on Earth is over
as he journeys to other
worlds, met by loved ones.
Cole has intrinsically linked
the hero's triumphant salvation
to the Christian doctrine
of death and resurrection.
This extraordinary
artist was not
called a master for nothing.
>>WILLIAM: Our soul is, indeed,
an enchanted boat, Clare.
I'm William Henry.
This is "Arcanum".
Thank you for watching.
>>CLARE: And I'm Clare Henry.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]